Response Codes
The Riot Games API returns all data in valid JSON. A few programming languages include native support for JSON. For those that don't, you can find a suitable library at https://www.json.org.

Note that our APIs return only non-empty values to save on bandwidth. Zero is considered an empty value, as well as empty strings, empty lists, and nulls. Any numeric field that isn't returned can be assumed to be 0 (or null as you prefer). Any list field that isn't returned can be assumed to be an empty list or null. Any String field that isn't returned can be assumed to be empty string or null.

2XX RESPONSE CODES
For 200 response codes, you can always expect the response body documented on the API reference page. Only 200 response codes are guaranteed to return a response body as JSON.

For non-200 response codes please be aware of the following:

A response body is not guaranteed to be returned.

If there is a response body, its not guaranteed to be JSON.
We currently return JSON with human readable debugging information, but the structure and content of this debugging information are subject to change. As an example...
    {
        "status": {
            "message": "Unauthorized",
            "status_code": 401,
        }
    }
The contents of status, message, and status_code are not guaranteed to always exist or remain constant for a given response code. 4. Logic within your application should fail gracefully based the response code alone, and should not rely on the response body.

4XX ERROR CODES
The 4xx class of error codes is meant to indicate that the client failed to provide a valid request. Below are the most common 4xx class of error codes you might encounter when using the API.

400 (Bad Request) This error indicates that there is a syntax error in the request and the request has therefore been denied. The client should not continue to make similar requests without modifying the syntax or the requests being made.

Common Reasons

A provided parameter is in the wrong format (e.g., a string instead of an integer).
A provided parameter is invalid (e.g., beginTime and startTime specify a time range that is too large).
A required parameter was not provided.
401 (Unauthorized) This error indicates that the request being made did not contain the necessary authentication credentials (e.g., an API key) and therefore the client was denied access. The client should not continue to make similar requests without including an API key in the request.

Common Reasons

An API key has not been included in the request.
403 (Forbidden) This error indicates that the server understood the request but refuses to authorize it. There is no distinction made between an invalid path or invalid authorization credentials (e.g., an API key). The client should not continue to make similar requests.

Common Reasons

An invalid API key was provided with the API request.
A blacklisted API key was provided with the API request.
The API request was for an incorrect or unsupported path.
404 (Not Found) This error indicates that the server has not found a match for the API request being made. No indication is given whether the condition is temporary or permanent.

Common Reasons

The ID or name provided does not match any existing resource (e.g., there is no Summoner matching the specified ID).
There are no resources that match the parameters specified.
415 (Unsupported Media Type) This error indicates that the server is refusing to service the request because the body of the request is in a format that is not supported.

Common Reasons

The Content-Type header was not appropriately set.
429 (Rate Limit Exceeded) This error indicates that the application has exhausted its maximum number of allotted API calls allowed for a given duration. If the client receives a Rate Limit Exceeded response the client should process this response and halt future API calls for the duration, in seconds, indicated by the Retry-After header. Applications that are in violation of this policy may have their access disabled to preserve the integrity of the API. Please refer to our Rate Limiting documentation below for more information on determining if you have been rate limited, and how to avoid it.

Common Reasons

Unregulated API calls.
5XX ERROR CODES
The 5xx class or error codes indicates that the server is aware it has errored or is incapable of performing the request. Below are the most common 5xx class of error codes you might encounter when using the API.

500 (Internal Server Error) This error indicates an unexpected condition or exception which prevented the server from fulfilling an API request.

503 (Service Unavailable) This error indicates the server is currently unavailable to handle requests because of an unknown reason. The Service Unavailable response implies a temporary condition which will be alleviated after some delay.

Rate Limiting
In order to control the use of the Riot Games API, we set limits on how many times endpoints can be accessed within a given time period. These limits are put in place to minimize abuse, to maintain a high level of stability, and to protect the underlying systems that back the API from being overloaded. The underlying systems are the same systems that power our games, so if they are overloaded, player experience suffers, and our first priority is to protect that experience.

RATE LIMITING TYPES
There are three types of limits used in the API infrastructure - application, method and service rate limits.

Application Rate Limits
The first type of limit is enforced on a per API key basis and is called an application rate limit. App rate limits are enforced per region. Every call made to any Riot Games API endpoint in a given region counts against the app rate limit for that key in that region. For example, calls to the static data API do not count against the application rate limit.

Method Rate Limits
The second type of limit is enforced on a per endpoint (or "method") basis for a given API key and is called a method rate limit. Method rate limits are also enforced per region. Every call made to any Riot Games API endpoint in a given region counts against the method rate limit for the given method and API key in that region.

Service Rate Limits
The third type of limit is enforced on a per service basis and is called a service rate limit. Service rate limits are also enforced per region. Every call made to any endpoint for a given Riot Games API service in a given region counts against the service rate limit for that service in that region. When service rate limits apply, we will document them, including which endpoints are part of the rate limited service.

Do not confuse method rate limits for service rate limits. Method rate limits apply individually to each application. Service rate limits apply to the service, and are shared by all applications making calls to a service.

Other Limits
These limits enforced by the API infrastructure are not the only gateways to the data provided. Some of the underlying services for certain endpoints may also implement their own rate limits, independently of the API infrastructure. In these cases, you will get a 429 error response, but there will be no X-Rate-Limit-Type header included in the response. Only when the rate limiting is enforced by the API edge infrastructure will this header be included.

While it is our policy not to reveal the specifics of how our rate limiting works, you can assume for the purposes of your code that the bucket starts when you make your first API call.